Time for a big one:
moving a RUNNING app to another machine,
while it runs.
We'll watch a live counter beating in
the app's memory,
move everything with one command,
and see the counter just keep counting
on the new machine.
It works in two phases.
Phase one copies the bulk while
the app keeps running.
Phase two checkpoints the live processes,
carries over the final delta plus
the process state,
and resumes everything on the new
machine.
So the downtime is the delta,
not the data.
And the app never knows it
moved.
Meet pulse.
It keeps a counter in process memory
and prints a beat every five seconds.
The counter is at six and climbing,
and it lives in RAM only.
Restart the process and it starts over
at one.
A live counter,
beating in memory.
That's our evidence.
One command moves it,
live.
Phase one transfers the bulk,
two gigabytes in about half a minute,
while the source keeps running.
Then the cutover:
it checkpoints the running processes,
carries the last few megabytes across,
and prints the downtime right there.
About twenty seconds,
for a two gigabyte move.
Two gigabytes moved while the app kept running.
The downtime line shows what the move actually
cost.
Check the new machine:
there it is.
Mounted,
Docker running,
two containers up.
Same repo,
new home,
already running.
And the source?
The repository is still listed,
but look at the row:
not mounted,
no Docker,
zero containers.
Nothing runs here anymore.
The image stays behind on purpose,
as the base for the next delta
transfer.
Stopped and unmounted.
The leftover image is a delta base,
not a running app.
Now the punchline.
The counter reads seventeen,
eighteen,
nineteen,
still climbing.
It picked up exactly where the
checkpoint froze it instead of starting
over at one.
The process never noticed it changed
machines.
The counter kept counting.
Process memory made the trip.
The counter never reset.
Memory,
database,
files,
all of it just changed
machines.
Next up,
we'll see why the second
transfer is always the fast
one.